For that I am back in the project we worked on earlier,
we'll use the index.html now and the app.js file and here in the browser, I'll therefore go to index.html
here instead of events.html.
This is the project we worked on where we can move items between our two boxes here,
just like that
and this is where I now want to implement drag and drop. Now as I said, it all starts and actually
I'll disable this analytics thing here,
it's a bit annoying here.
So let me go to app.js and here in app init,
I'll disable this timer code here,
save that so that we don't have this in a console.
So with that, let's start by making the elements here
draggable and we'll do this by going to the HTML file, to the elements here and there on the list
item which is the element that should be draggable, we add the draggable attribute and important,
set this to true.
Just adding it like this would not be enough,
you have to set it to true.
If you created the element programmatically, you can control the property, the draggable property and
set that to true. Of course
do that for all the list items here,
so for the two in the first box and the one in the third box
and once you did that and you save the file and you reload, you can already drag this element here.
Now dropping it somewhere won't do anything,
you can drop it everywhere and it will not do a single thing
and here you also see that you get this visual feedback,
we have the item here, a transparent version of it on our mouse cursor and we can drop it anywhere but
it's not really moved and that is how it should behave.
Now side note, you see here when this is not fully visible we get this effect where the finished projects
part is also part of the element but we will only drag the selected element, so that all will work
as expected.
So now this is draggable,
how do we proceed?
Well the next step was to listen to the drag start event,
so in app.js, we want to do that and that happens on the item we're dragging, so we'll represent this
here with our project item plus. There we're setting up listeners to the more info button and to the
switch button,
I will also set up a listener to the drag start event and for this, I'll add a new method here and
I'll name it connect drag,
you can name it however you want, of course I'll just name it like this to be in line with connect more
info button and connect switch button
and then here in the constructor, I will call this connect drag like that. Now inside of connect drag,
I now want to add this event listener.
So here we can get our element by ID, by this ID because we have the element ID stored in the ID
property of this class
and then as we did it earlier, add an event listener
and then here drag start. This is the event I want to listen to,
now we get an event object in that function and I'll just use an anonymous function here,
you could of course also add a new method and point at that
and now in here, we can configure that drag event
as I mentioned. You can configure the data you want to append,
you can configure which kind of operation it is so that the browser can display the correct cursor and
you can also, if you wanted to, change this preview image which is generated here,
so the thing attached to our mouse. By default
it's a preview of the DOM element,
now you could also point at any other image here
and by the way, in the last lecture of this module, you'll also find a more detailed document regarding
drag and drop operations with alternatives and also deeper explanations on other parts or other of things
you could do with it which we simply don't need in this project here,
so that will be a great resource to dive deeper. In this example here,
I don't want to change that preview image,
I want to append some data though, I want to append the ID of the element we're dragging, so that later
when we drop it somewhere, we can extract that ID from the event object and do something with that
because otherwise, we'll not know which kind of element was dragged in the place where it is dropped.
We can do this here with the event object because there, since it's a drag event, you'll have a data transfer
property or object which it is and there, you can call a set data method.
Now on set data, you can set data of different types.
You find this document attached here,
you'll find examples of the different types of data you can add,
for example you can add plain text identified with this identifier and then any text of your choice.
You can attach links, you can attach HTML or XML content, so you can attach a broad variety of
things, of data and the type which we use here will be important for when we then plan on making
or adding a droppable place in our application because there, we could check what is getting
dragged over it so that we don't accept any droppable data but only of a specific type.
So here I'll go with plain text and therefore the first argument here is text/plain, the identifier
for just the text and the second argument is this ID, the ID is in the end just a string and
therefore plain text so we can just pass the ID like that. We can also set another property on data
transfer and that's the effect allowed property.
Here we describe which kind of drag and drop operation is getting performed
and this can have one of these values here, you also find this link attached where you can have a move
operation, a copy operation and so on.
Now the browser cursor should be updated accordingly
and here I'll go for regular move operation by simply setting this equal to move here
and with that for me, my drag event is configured,
we added some data to it.
Now the next step is to make a certain part of our page a drop zone if you want to call it like that.